CupL software
=============

CupL is a MATLAB program for assisting with the analysis of kinetochore pair
dynamics. It calculates various statistics on kinetochore tracks, including
autocorrelations, crosscorrelations, separation distances and speeds, as well as
collating tracking data into a unified data file. Input tracking data can be
from the KiT program or the Maki program (see Jaqaman, et al., JCB 188:665-679 2010).

This software is licensed for use under the GNU GPL v3 license. See LICENSE file
for details.

Installation
------------

No installation is necessary, simply copy the source code to the directory of
your choice. Enter that directory within MATLAB (use directory toolbar at top,
or 'cd' command) and then enter commands.

Usage
-----

Analysis of tracking data begins with the following command:

    analysis = cuplAnalyseFiles;

A dialog appears to allow selection of the directory to recursively search for
tracking data. Choose a directory.

Files beginning 'kittracking' or 'sisterList' will be displayed in the file
chooser dialog. Highlight data files to analyse on the left and press the arrow
button to move them to the right. Press 'Done'

A file dialog will appear asking for an output mat-file filename. Plots will
also be generated at the same location, so it is recommended to create a
sub-directory for this file.

A dialog will now appear to allow editing of various analysis parameters. The
defaults will usually be sufficient. Press 'Ok' to begin analysis.

When analysis has finished, you will be presented with a list of possible
plots. Highlight desired plots or press 'Select all'. Press 'Plot' and the plot
options dialog will appear. This allows customization of various plot
parameters. The defaults will usually be sufficient. Press 'Ok' to begin drawing
plots.

Plots will be saved as PDF files with reasonably self-explanatory names
(containing the name of the analysis mat-file). The data plotted is also
exported as CSV files.

Advanced usage
--------------

Analysis may be limited to reduce size or increase speed by specifying the
analysis jobs to perform as the first parameter to 'cuplAnalyseFiles'. The data
files to load and the output filename can also be set here. See 'help
cuplAnalyseFiles' for details.

The results of all analyses are stored in the analysis struct returned by
'cuplAnalyseFiles'. For a guide to the fields, see the NOTES file.


Bugs
----

Send bug or crash reports and feature requests to jonathan.armond@warwick.ac.uk.

Include:
  - Brief description of steps to reproduce error.
  - Copy of the error text.
  - Tracking data mat-file(s).
  - Analysis mat-file (if available).


Credits
-------

- E. Vladimirou wrote the original version of CupL in 2010 for the analysis
  of coupling between kinetochore trajectories.

- J. W. Armond organised the code into its current form as CupL. He added
  support for analysing individual tracks as opposed to sister pairs. He also
  made a number of improvements toward code cleanliness and efficiency.


